Monalibc is a C runtime library under development, whose main target is Mona OS.
This libc doesn't implement all of the C standard functions or macros, but it
provides the codes enough to implement or port many C programs and libraries
to a degree. This was developed by Higepon, Shadow, Shotaro Tsuji et alii almost from scratch for Mona.

The target of Monalibc is Mona OS and it is the core part of Mona. Therefore this libc isn't an independent library.
First, the CRT, start-up routines of C programs, is fully dpendent on Mona. Of course,
these codes will be written for a specific system. Second, the functions which use
the system-calls rely on Mona. Some functions abstract the operations and call
the system through low-level functions. Others call MonAPI directly. Third,
makefiles are written on the expectation that this libc would only be used on
Mona. So you cannot do 'make' this on other systems.

If you build Mona OS, you can install this libc on it. The makefile,
"mona/Makefile" makes and installs Monalibc automatically, and you don't need use 'configure'.

It is supposed that Monalibc work on Mona OS, which supports only x86 PCs, and it depends on system headers, MonAPI, keyboard server, mouse server, process server, file server, and syscalls.
Monalibc also depends on x86 cpus to provide the fenv.h.
The following functions depend on Mona OS: crt, dirent, stdio, stdlib, sys, and time.
The following functions depend on x86: fenv, intrinsics, setjmp, and stdarg.
The following functions are independent: assert, ctype, errno, inttypes, locale, math, string, and wchar.
On the rest, 'private' consists of miscellaneous routines, and 'unistd' and 'newlib' are imported from other systems.

The header files are located in the directory, `mona/include/monalibc/'.


If you wanted to build Monalibc on others, you cannot make it with the makefiles
as it is. You should modify or rewrite them for the system on which you would
want to install it.
You should write system dependent codes. Vide supra to know what functions to be implemented.

Monalibc, in principio, had few of libc functions, exempli causa, math functions.
Moreover, some libc functions such as string, stdlib, was included in MonAPI,
the API of Mona. In these time, Monalibc was developmented by Shadow and Higepon.

Due to this insufficience it was difficult to port C programs onto Mona and it was preventing Mona from growing.
But it marged into itself Nidalibc, which was a C runtime library developed to a degree.
Then it came to manage to serve as a libc; it got the C start up routines and some functions: stdio, stdlib, string, ctype et cetera.

Monalibc might contain bugs and lack some functions yet. We welcome your patches to this libc.

Please send bug reports to `Shotaro.Tsuji@gmail.com' or post it on the developers Wiki.
Your bug reports should describe your input and output, what you expected and the reason it is wrong.
